CS201 FINAL EXAM

TOTAL POSSIBLE POINTS:  100 points

You can access the d2l website, textbook online and the man pages.
You have 1 hour to do the final.

The program takes two side values.  Use even number values; I will
be testing the code with side values between 1 and 100 that are even. 

There are 3 functions inside final.c.  Read the instructions for each
function and either write assembly code or improve the performance of
the code.

35 or 50 points max:  The first function, write assembly code to compute
the area of a right triangle:  1/2*a*b   where a and b are the two legs
of the triangle.  Use integer arithmetic and don't worry about truncation
by division.  I will be using even values for a and b.  Also, you will
get only 35 points if you use the idiv instruction and a full 50 points
if you avoid it.

   *This must be in assembly. Do not write any C code.
   *This should be less than 10 lines long including any
    input and output. Writing more than this will reduce
    the number of points.


36 or 46 or 50 points max: The second function is a copy of the third
function.  Leave this function alone. This is for benchmarking your
code.  In the third function, improve the inner loop so that the
function runs at least 50% faster for 35 points, at least 70% faster
for 45 points or at least 75% faster for 50 points.

Things that you need to do:

   *Make sure that the sum for both functions are equal.
   *Leave the outer loop alone. Don't use i or RUNS value inside the
    outer loop.
   *If you want to, for debugging purposes, change the value of
    RUNS and SIZE you can do so but do make sure to return them to
    their original values.
   *Don't use any special math formulas as a 'short-cut' to calculation.
    However, you can change the way the current formula is done as long
    as the sum is the same as the original.
   *YOUR CODE MUST ACCESS EVERY ELEMENT IN THE ARRAY. THIS IS IMPORTANT.
    You will get substantial points off if it doesn't.
   *You can create your own variables above the loops and add other
    lines inside and outside the loop as long as the above holds true.  


Start with final.c, either download it from d2l assignment folder
"final" or from the directory ~gd.iyer/cs201/final . Make sure to
have your code print out YOUR name instead of "I. Forgot".

Upload your code as final.c to D2L by the end of the 1 hour limit.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

REQUIRED PLATFORM

I grade your code on syccuxas01.pcc.edu. Your code is required to
compile and run correctly on that machine.

COMPILING YOUR CODE

You are required to compile your code with the flags:

gcc -Wall -m32 final.c -o final

don't use any optimization when running your code.

GRADING YOUR CODE

Your code needs to compile without errors or warnings and run
correctly. Code that does not compile will receive substantially
less points. Code that crashes will receive substantially less points.

TO SUBMIT THIS ASSIGNMENT

Submit the requested file to the d2l assignment folder marked 'final'.

    * Be certain to check that you completed the upload successfully.
      After you click the Upload File button, you must also click
      the SUBMIT ASSIGNMENT button. This is very easy to forget. If
      you do not do this, I will not see your work and you will get
      a grade of zero for the assignment. I would recommend entering
      an email address so you can be notified that the upload was
      completed successfully.
    * You may upload as many versions as you wish prior to the due
      time. I will only see and grade the final one. You will not be
      able to upload assignments after the due date and time.
